# Basic-Properties-of-Bitcoin
Basic properties of Bitcoin and its relationship to Poisson and Geometric distributions.

# What is Bitcoin?
Bitcoin a digital currency initially introduced by "Satoshi Nakamoto" in early 2008. While Bitcoin is incredibly fascinating in regards to philosophy and implementation, this lab will focus on how Bitcoin is mined.  
Bitcoin is similar to objects with "intrinsic" value which are obtained through physical labor such as gold. While there are many reasons why gold has become socially accepted as an object instilled with intrinsic value, it can be partially attributed to its scarcity and traditional difficulty of acquisition. For starters, if we were to acquire all of the gold in the world, and melt it down, it would fit in about 3:5 Olympic regulation sized pools. Second, the process of mining gold is costly and physically difficult. You need to smack a rock with a pickax until you strike gold.  
In order to simulate this level of exertion, Bitcoin bases its algorithm for mining off of a proof of work scheme, where instead of physically exerting oneself as in the case of gold mining, Bitcoin miners compute something that requires a considerable investment in the way of hardware, power, and time. The actual proof of work scheme involves finding an input to the SHA-256 hash function that has n leading zeros. (So, the miner needs to find some x such that y =SHA256(x) where the first n bits of y are zero.)  
Bitcoin makes use of a data structure called the Blockchain, which acts as a public ledger of all transactions. You can imagine it as a linked list of blocks. Each block contains a set of transactions. In order to mine a new Bitcoin, a miner needs to first propose a new block Bj (which includes a set of transactions to be confirmed on the blockchain; we omit details but you can learn more about this online!). Then, the miner needs to confirm this block Bj by finding a nonce rj such that y = SHA256(Bj||Bj-1||rj) and the first n bits of y are zero. Bj-1 is the previous block in the blockchain. The nonce (a value that never repeats, usually a value that is chosen at random) rj is used to confirm that the block Bj comes immediately after block Bj-1 on the blockchain. Miners compete to find a valid nonce rj; the first miner to find and publish such a nonce rj to the other miners is rewarded with bitcoin(s).

# Assumptions
(1) assume that outputs of the hash function behave in a pseudorandom way. That is, on input x belongs to {0, 1}^\*, the output value SHA256(x) is uniformly chosen from {0, 1}^256.  
(2) assume that each miner randomly chooses a value for the nonce rj, hashes it along with Bj and Bj1, and checks if the output has rou leading zeros. If it doesn't, it chooses a fresh random rj and tries again.  
(3) assume that the required number of leading zeros is rou = 71. Note that in real life, this parameter is chosen by the Bitcoin community based on the number of active miners and the total computing power available to the miners.  
